# Professional Communications

**Course Outcome 2**	Design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts.

Throughout my studies at SNHU, I have gained skills in communicating with stakeholders. CS360, Mobile Architecture and Programming, provided practical opportunities for me to work in an agile-like environment on a Weight Tracking Android mobile app. I started the development process with a market research report in which I compared similar successful apps, exploring their strengths and weaknesses, and understanding the needs of the users. I followed my research with an app proposal that detailed the necessary classes for the app, the UI elements I planned to use, the features, and the functionality to be included along with a high-fidelity wireframe of my proposed app. After gaining feedback on my design, I submitted a UI-only XML deliverable that contained the full layout of the app.  After gaining approval on my user interface, I submitted my final product including the full Android Studio project. I submitted an App Launch plan and along with my app to outline the features, functionality, icon,app store description, images, and my recommended monetization plan based on research. Following agile development best practices, I delivered an app that accurately matched the client’s description, and, as a result, the Java [Android app](https://sheraadams.github.io/CS360) was well received. 

- **Using skills in mobile app development, Java, XML, UI design, communication, and agile development practices, I developed and delivered professional-quality communications that were appropriately adapted to specific audiences.**
